Structure Your Input
====================

The `lightly Python package <https://pypi.org/project/lightly/>`_ can process image datasets to generate embeddings 
or to upload data to the `Lightly platform <https://app.lightly.ai>`_. In this tutorial you will learn how to structure
your image dataset such that it is understood by our framework.


Image Folder Datasets
---------------------

Image folder datasets contain raw images and are typically specified with the `input_dir` key-word.


Flat Directory Containing Images
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can store all images of interest in a single folder without additional hierarchy. For example below,
lightly will load all filenames and images in the directory `data/`. Additionally, it will assign all images
a placeholder label.

.. code-block:: bash

    # a single directory containing all images
    data/
    +--- img-1.jpg
    +--- img-2.jpg
    ...
    +--- img-N.jpg

For the structure above, lightly will understand the input as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    filenames = [
        'img-1.jpg',
        'img-2.jpg',
        ...
        'img-N.jpg',
    ]

    labels = [
        0,
        0,
        ...
        0,
    ]

Directory with Subdirectories Containing Images
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can give structure to your input directory by collecting the input images in subdirectories. In this case,
the filenames loaded by lightly are with respect to the "root directory" `data/`. Furthermore, lightly assigns
each image a so-called "weak-label" indicating to which subdirectory it belongs.

.. code-block:: bash

    # directory with subdirectories containing all images
    data/
    +-- weak-label-1/
        +-- img-1.jpg
        +-- img-2.jpg
        ...
        +-- img-N1.jpg
    +-- weak-label-2/
        +-- img-1.jpg
        +-- img-2.jpg
        ...
        +-- img-N2.jpg
    ...
    ...
    ...
    +-- weak-label-10/
        +-- img-1.jpg
        +-- img-2.jpg
        ...
        +-- img-N10.jpg

For the structure above, lightly will understand the input as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    filenames = [
        'weak-label-1/img-1.jpg',
        'weak-label-1/img-2.jpg',
        ...
        'weak-label-1/img-N1.jpg',
        'weak-label-2/img-1.jpg',
        ...
        'weak-label-2/img-N2.jpg',
        ...
        'weak-label-10/img-N10.jpg',
    ]

    labels = [
        0,
        0,
        ...
        0,
        1,
        ...
        1,
        ...
        10,
    ]

Torchvision Datasets
--------------------

Lightly also supports a direct interface to some of the `torchvision datasets <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/torchvision/datasets.html>`_.
From the command-line interface, they can easily be specified with the `data` and `root` keyowords. The following torchvision
datasets are currently supported by the lightly Python package:

* cifar10
* cifar100
* cityscapes
* stl10
* voc07-det
* voc12-det
* voc07-seg
* voc12-seg

For example, the following command downloads the cifar10 datasets and generates embeddings for all images:

.. code-block:: bash

    lightly-embed data='cifar10' root='./'


Embedding Files
---------------

Embeddings generated by the lightly Python package are typically stored in a `.csv` file and can then be uploaded to the 
Lightly platform from the command line. If the embeddings were generated with the lightly command-line tool, they have  
the correct format already.

You can also save your own embeddings in a `.csv` file to upload them. In that case, make sure the file meets the format 
requirements: Use the `save_embeddings` function from `lightly.utils.io` to convert your embeddings, weak-labels, and 
filenames to the right shape.

.. code-block:: python

    import lightly.utils.io as io

    # embeddings:
    # embeddings are stored as an n_samples x dim numpy array
    embeddings = np.array([[0.1, 0.5],
                           [0.2, 0.2],
                           [0.1, 0.9],
                           [0.3, 0.2]])
    
    # weak-labels
    # a list of integers carrying meta-information about the images
    labels = [0, 1, 1, 0]

    # filenames
    # list of strings containing the filenames of the images w.r.t the input directory
    filenames = [
        'weak-label-0/img-1.jpg',
        'weak-label-1/img-1.jpg',
        'weak-label-1/img-2.jpg',
        'weak-label-0/img-2.jpg',
    ]

    io.save_embeddings('my_embeddings_file.csv', embeddings, labels, filenames)

The code shown above will produce the following `.csv` file:

.. list-table:: my_embeddings_file.csv
   :widths: 50 50 50 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - filenames
     - embedding_0
     - embedding_1
     - labels
   * - weak-label-0/img-1.jpg
     - 0.1
     - 0.5
     - 0
   * - weak-label-1/img-1.jpg
     - 0.2
     - 0.2
     - 1
   * - weak-label-1/img-2.jpg
     - 0.1
     - 0.9
     - 1
   * - weak-label-0/img-2.jpg
     - 0.3
     - 0.2
     - 0