docs/source/getting_started/dataset_creation/dataset_creation_local_server.rst, before:

.. _dataset-creation-local-server:

Create a dataset with a local file server
-----------------------------------------

You can configure a dataset in the Lightly Platform that streams the images
from your local file system. This makes the creation of a dataset much faster,
as no upload of images and thumbnails is needd.


Setting up local file server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Navigate to the directory your dataset lies.
From within this directory, create a local http server for the files:

.. code-block:: bash

    http://localhost:1234/

If the port 1234 is used, try another.

Configuring Lightly Dataset
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Create and configure a dataset

1. `Create a new dataset <https://app.lightly.ai/dataset/create>`_ in Lightly
2. Edit your dataset and select
To create a new dataset of images with embeddings use the lightly :ref:`lightly-command-line-tool`:

.. code-block:: bash

    lightly-magic trainer.max_epochs=0 token='YOUR_API_TOKEN' new_dataset_name='my-dataset' input_dir='/path/to/my/dataset'

Commit message:

created tutorial datasource local server

docs/source/getting_started/dataset_creation/dataset_creation_local_server.rst, after:

.. _dataset-creation-local-server:

Create a dataset with a local file server
-----------------------------------------

You can configure a dataset in the Lightly Platform that streams the images
from your local file system. This makes the creation of a dataset much faster,
as no upload of images and thumbnails is needd.
Let's assume that your dataset is locally at `/projects/animals`.


Setting up local file server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Navigate to the directory your dataset lies.
From within this directory, create a local http server for the files:

.. code-block:: bash

    cd /projects/animals
    http://localhost:1234/

If the port 1234 is used, try another. You must keep the file server
open while using the Lightly Platform.

Configuring Lightly Dataset
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Create and configure a dataset

1. `Create a new dataset <https://app.lightly.ai/dataset/create>`_ in Lightly
2. Edit your dataset and select the datasource `Local`.

.. figure:: ./images_local_server/screenshot_local_server_create_dataset.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Lightly S3 connection config
    :width: 60%

Choose the resource path `https://localhost:1234` or adapt the port if needed.
Set the filename suffix to empty.


Create the dataset and upload embeddings and metadata.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For creating the dataset and uploading embeddings and metadata to it, you need
to install the :ref:`lightly-command-line-tool`, e.g. via pip.
Then use one of the commands proposed in the dataset creation wizard.

.. code-block:: bash

    # install the lightly command line tool.
    pip install lightly

    # Compute embeddings, create the dataset and upload metadata
    lightly-magic token=TOKEN dataset_id=DATASET_ID input_dir=/projects/animals \
    trainer.max_epochs=0 upload='meta'
