docs/source/docker/getting_started/first_steps.rst, before:

.. _rst-docker-first-steps:

First Steps
===================================

The Lightly Docker solution follows a train, embed, select flow using 
self-supervised learning.

.. code-block:: console

    +-------+      +-------+      +--------+
    | Train +----->+ Embed +----->+ Select |
    +-------+      +-------+      +--------+

#. You can either use a pre-trained model from the model zoo or fine-tune
   a model on your unlabeled dataset using self-supervised learning. The output
   of the train step is a model checkpoint.

#. The embed step creates embeddings of the input dataset. Each sample gets
   represented using a low-dimensional vector. The output of the embed step is
   a .csv file.

#. Finally, based on the embeddings and additional information we can use 
   one of the sampling algorithms to pick the relevant data for you.
   The output of the select step is a list of filenames as well as 
   analytics in form of a pdf report with plots.

You can use each of the three steps independently as well. E.g. you can use
the Lightly Docker to embed a dataset and train a linear classifier on top of 
them.


The docker solution can be used as a command-line interface. You run the container, tell it where to find data, and where to store the result. That's it.
There are various parameters you can pass to the container. We put a lot of effort to also expose the full lightly framework configuration.
You could use the docker solution to train a self-supervised model instead of using the Python framework.

Before jumping into the detail let's have a look at some basics.
The docker container can be used as a simple script. You can control parameters by changing flags.

Use the following command to get an overview of the available parameters:

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it lightly/sampling:latest --help

.. note:: In case the command fails because docker does not detect your GPU
          you might want to make sure `nvidia-docker` is installed.
          You can follow the guide 
          `here <https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/install-guide.html#docker>`_.


Storage Access
-----------------------------------

We use volume mapping provided by the docker run command to process datasets. 
A docker container itself is not considered to be a good place to store your data. 
Volume mapping allows the container to work with the filesystem of the host system.


There are **three** types of volume mappings:

* **Input Directory:**
   The input directory contains the dataset we want to process. The format of the input data should be either a single
   folder containing all the images or a folder containing a subfolder which holds the images.
   See the tutorial :ref:`input-structure-label`  for more information.
   The container has only **read access** to this directory (note the *:ro* at
   the end of the volume mapping).
* **Shared Directory:**
   The shared directory allows the user to pass additional inputs such as embeddings or model checkpoints
   to the container. The checkpoints should be generated by the lightly Python package or by the docker 
   container and the embeddings should be in the format specified in the tutorial "Structure Your Input".
   The container requires only **read access** to this directory.
* **Output Directory:**
   The output directory is the place where the results from all computations made by the container are stored.
   See :ref:`Reporting` and :ref:`Docker Output` for additional information. The container requires **read and 
   write access** to this directory.

.. note:: Docker volume or port mappings always follow the scheme that you first
          specify the host systems port followed by the internal port of the
          container. E.g. **-v /datasets:/home/datasets** would mount /datasets
          from your system to /home/datasets in the docker container.


Typically, your docker command would start like this:

- Map *INPUT_DIR* (from your system) to */home/input_dir* in the container
  
  *e.g. /path/to/my/cat/dataset:/home/input_dir:ro*

- Map *OUTPUT_DIR* (from your system) to */home/output_dir* in the container
  
  *e.g. /path/where/I/want/the/docker/output:/home/output_dir*

- Specify the token to authenticate your user

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN

Now, let's see how this will look in action!

.. note:: Learn how to obtain your :ref:`ref-authentication-token`.

.. warning:: Don't forget to replace **INPUT_DIR** and **OUTPUT_DIR** with the path 
             to your local input and output directory. You must not change the 
             path after the **:** since this path is describing the internal
             file system within the container!

Embedding and Sampling a Dataset
-----------------------------------

To embed your images with a pre-trained model, you can run the docker solution with this command:

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN \
        remove_exact_duplicates=True \
        enable_corruptness_check=True \
        stopping_condition.n_samples=0.3

The command above does the following:

- **remove_exact_duplicates=True** Check your dataset for corrupt images

- **enable_corruptness_check=True** Removes exact duplicates

- **stopping_condition.n_samples=0.3** Samples 30% of the images using the
  default method (coreset). Sampling 30% means that the remaining dataset 
  will be 30% of the initial dataset size. You can also specify the exact 
  number of remaining images by setting **n_samples** to an integer value.

  This allows you to specify the minimum allowed distance between two image 
  embeddings in the output dataset. After normalizing the input embeddings 
  to unit length, this value should be between 0 and 2. This is often a more 
  convenient method when working with different data sources and trying to 
  combine them in a balanced way.

- **stopping_condition.min_distance=0.2** would remove all samples which are
  closer to each other than 0.2. 

By default the docker container does just create an output file with the selected
filenames for you. You can also tell the solution to copy the selected files into
the output folder by adding the parameter **dump_dataset=True** to the command.


Train a Self-Supervised Model
-----------------------------------

Sometimes it may be beneficial to finetune a self-supervised model on your 
dataset before embedding the images. This may be the case when the dataset is 
from a specific domain (e.g. for medical images).

The command below will **train a self-supervised model** for (default: 100) 
epochs on the images stored in the input directory before embedding 
and sampling them.

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN \
        enable_training=True

The training of the model is identical to using the lightly open-source package
with the following command:

.. code-block:: console

    lightly-train input_dir=INPUT_DIR

**Checkpoints** from your training process will be stored in the output directory. You can continue training from such
a checkpoint by copying the checkpoint to the shared directory and then passing the checkpoint filename to the container:

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v SHARED_DIR:/home/shared_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN \
        stopping_condition.n_samples=0.3 \
        enable_training=True \
        checkpoint=lightly_epoch_99.ckpt

You may not always want to train for exactly 100 epochs with the default settings. The next section will
explain how to customize the default settings.


Accessing Lightly Input Parameters
-----------------------------------
The docker container is a wrapper around the lightly Python package. 
Hence, for training and embedding the user can access all the settings from 
the lightly command-line tool. Just prepend the parameter with **lightly** to
do so.

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN \
        remove_exact_duplicates=True \
        enable_corruptness_check=True \
        stopping_condition.n_samples=0.3 \
        enable_training=True \
        lightly.trainer.max_epochs=10 \
        lightly.collate.input_size=64 \
        lightly.loader.batch_size=256 \
        lightly.trainer.precision=16 \
        lightly.model.name=resnet-101



A list of all input parameters can be found here: :ref:`rst-docker-parameters`


Sampling from Embeddings File
----------------------------------

It is also possible to sample directly from embedding files generated by previous runs. For this,
move the embeddings file to the shared directory, and specify the filename like so:

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v SHARED_DIR:/home/shared_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN \
        remove_exact_duplicates=True \
        enable_corruptness_check=False \
        stopping_condition.n_samples=0.3 \
        embeddings=my_embeddings.csv

The embeddings file should follow the structure of the .csv file created by the
lightly CLI: :ref:`ref-cli-embeddings-lightly` or as described in :ref:`ref-docker-meta-information`. 

Sampling from Video Files
--------------------------
In case you are working with video files, it is possible to point the docker container 
directly to the video files. This prevents the need to extract the individual frames beforehand.
To do so, simply store all videos you want to work with in a single directory, the lightly software
will automatically load all frames from the videos.

.. code-block:: console

    # work on a single video
    data/
    +-- my_video.mp4

    # work on several videos
    data/
    +-- my_video_1.mp4
    +-- my_video_2.avi

As you can see, the videos do not need to be in the same file format. An example command for a folder 
structure as shown above could then look like this:

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v SHARED_DIR:/home/shared_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN \
        stopping_condition.n_samples=0.3

Where INPUT_DIR is the path to the directory containing the video files.

Removing Exact Duplicates
---------------------------
With the docker solution, it is possible to remove **only exact duplicates** from the dataset. For this,
simply set the stopping condition `n_samples` to 1.0 (which translates to 100% of the data). The exact command is:

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v SHARED_DIR:/home/shared_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN \
        remove_exact_duplicates=True \
        stopping_condition.n_samples=1.


Reporting
-----------------------------------

To facilitate sustainability and reproducibility in ML, the docker container
has an integrated reporting component. For every dataset, you run through the container
an output directory gets created with the exact configuration used for the experiment. 
Additionally, plots, statistics, and more information collected either during the training of the
self-supervised model, embedding, or sampling of the dataset are provided. 

To make it easier for you to understand and discuss the dataset we put the essential information into
an automatically generated PDF report.
Sample reports can be found on the `Lightly website <https://lightly.ai/analytics>`_.


.. _ref-docker-runs:

Live View of Docker Status
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can get a live status update of the currently running docker runs through 
the `cloud platform <https://app.lightly.ai>`_. 

To use the new feature simply follow the steps:

#. Make sure you have the latest docker version installed
   (see :ref:`ref-docker-download-and-install`) 
#. Open a browser and navigate to the `Lightly Platform <https://app.lightly.ai>`_
#. In the navigation menu on the top click on **My Docker Runs**
#. Once you start the Lightly Docker you should see the dashboard of the current
   run. Please make sure that you use the same token for the docker run as you
   find in the dashboard.

In the dashboard, you see a 
list of your docker runs and a live update of the active runs. Use this
view to see whether the data selection is still running as expected.

.. image:: images/docker_runs_overview.png

.. note:: Note that only status updates and error messages are transmitted. 


Docker Output
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The output directory is structured in the following way:

* config:
   A directory containing copies of the configuration files and overwrites.
* data:
   The data directory contains everything to do with data. If `enable_corruptness_check=True`,
   it will contain a "clean" version of the dataset. If `remove_exact_duplicates=True`, it will 
   contain a copy of the `embeddings.csv` where all duplicates are removed. Otherwise, it will 
   simply store the embeddings computed by the model.
* filenames:
   This directory contains lists of filenames of the corrupt images, removed images, sampled
   images and the images which were removed because they have an exact duplicate in the dataset.
* plots:
   A directory containing the plots which were produced for the report.
* report.pdf
   To provide a simple overview of the filtering process the docker container automatically generates a report.
   The report contains

   * information about the job (duration, processed files etc.)
   * estimated savings in terms of labeling costs and CO2 due to the smaller dataset
   * statistics about the dataset before and after sampling
   * histogram before and after filtering
   * visualizations of the dataset
   * nearest neighbors of retained images among the removed ones



Below you find a typical output folder structure.


.. code-block:: console

    |-- config
    |   |-- config.yaml
    |   |-- hydra.yaml
    |   '-- overrides.yaml
    |-- data
    |   |-- embeddings.csv
    |   '-- unique_embeddings.csv
    |-- filenames
    |   |-- corrupt_filenames.txt
    |   |-- duplicate_filenames.txt
    |   |-- removed_filenames.txt
    |   '-- sampled_filenames.txt
    |-- plots
    |   |-- distance_distr_after.png
    |   |-- distance_distr_before.png
    |   |-- filter_decision_0.png
    |   |-- filter_decision_166668.png
    |   |-- filter_decision_250002.png
    |   |-- filter_decision_333336.png
    |   |-- filter_decision_416670.png
    |   |-- filter_decision_83334.png
    |   |-- scatter_pca.png
    |   |-- scatter_pca_no_overlay.png
    |   |-- scatter_umap.png
    |   '-- scatter_umap_no_overlay.png
    '-- report.pdf

Evaluation of the Sampling Proces
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**Histograms and Plots**

The report contains histograms of the pairwise distance between images before and after the sampling.

An example of such a histogram before and after filtering for the CamVid dataset consisting of 367
samples is shown below. We marked the region which is of special interest with an orange rectangle. 
Our goal is to make this histogram more symmetric by removing samples of short distances from each other. 

If we remove 25 samples (7%) out of the 367 samples of the CamVid dataset the histogram looks more symmetric
as shown below. In our experiments, removing 7% of the dataset results in a model with higher validation set accuracy.

.. image:: images/histogram_before_after.jpg

.. note::

    Why symmetric histograms are preferred: An asymmetric histogram can be the result of either a dataset with outliers or inliers.
    A heavy tail for low distances means that there is at least one high-density region with many samples very close to each other within the main cluster.
    Having such a high-density region can lead to biased models trained on this particular dataset. A heavy tail towards high distances shows that there is
    at least one high-density region outside the main cluster of samples.

**Retained/Removed Image Pairs**

The report also displays examples of retained images with their nearest neighbor among the removed images. This is a good heuristic to see whether the number 
of retained samples is too small or too large: If the pairs are are very different, this may be a sign that too many samples were removed. If the pairs are similar,
it is suggested that more images are removed.

With the argument stopping_condition.n_samples=X you can set the number of samples which should be kept.

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN \
        remove_exact_duplicates=True \
        enable_corruptness_check=False \
        stopping_condition.n_samples=500

With the argument n_example_images you can determine how many pairs are shown. Note that this must be an even number.

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN \
        remove_exact_duplicates=True \
        enable_corruptness_check=False \
        stopping_condition.n_samples=0.3 \
        n_example_images=32

Commit message:

Fix typo. Add colab to work with embeddings

docs/source/docker/getting_started/first_steps.rst, after:

.. _rst-docker-first-steps:

First Steps
===================================

The Lightly Docker solution follows a train, embed, select flow using 
self-supervised learning.

.. code-block:: console

    +-------+      +-------+      +--------+
    | Train +----->+ Embed +----->+ Select |
    +-------+      +-------+      +--------+

#. You can either use a pre-trained model from the model zoo or fine-tune
   a model on your unlabeled dataset using self-supervised learning. The output
   of the train step is a model checkpoint.

#. The embed step creates embeddings of the input dataset. Each sample gets
   represented using a low-dimensional vector. The output of the embed step is
   a .csv file.

#. Finally, based on the embeddings and additional information we can use 
   one of the sampling algorithms to pick the relevant data for you.
   The output of the select step is a list of filenames as well as 
   analytics in form of a pdf report with plots.

You can use each of the three steps independently as well. E.g. you can use
the Lightly Docker to embed a dataset and train a linear classifier on top of 
them.


The docker solution can be used as a command-line interface. You run the container, tell it where to find data, and where to store the result. That's it.
There are various parameters you can pass to the container. We put a lot of effort to also expose the full lightly framework configuration.
You could use the docker solution to train a self-supervised model instead of using the Python framework.

Before jumping into the detail let's have a look at some basics.
The docker container can be used as a simple script. You can control parameters by changing flags.

Use the following command to get an overview of the available parameters:

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it lightly/sampling:latest --help

.. note:: In case the command fails because docker does not detect your GPU
          you want to make sure `nvidia-docker` is installed.
          You can follow the guide 
          `here <https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/install-guide.html#docker>`_.


Storage Access
-----------------------------------

We use volume mapping provided by the docker run command to process datasets. 
A docker container itself is not considered to be a good place to store your data. 
Volume mapping allows the container to work with the filesystem of the host system.


There are **three** types of volume mappings:

* **Input Directory:**
   The input directory contains the dataset we want to process. The format of the input data should be either a single
   folder containing all the images or a folder containing a subfolder which holds the images.
   See the tutorial :ref:`input-structure-label`  for more information.
   The container has only **read access** to this directory (note the *:ro* at
   the end of the volume mapping).
* **Shared Directory:**
   The shared directory allows the user to pass additional inputs such as embeddings or model checkpoints
   to the container. The checkpoints should be generated by the lightly Python package or by the docker 
   container and the embeddings should be in the format specified in the tutorial "Structure Your Input".
   The container requires only **read access** to this directory.
* **Output Directory:**
   The output directory is the place where the results from all computations made by the container are stored.
   See :ref:`Reporting` and :ref:`Docker Output` for additional information. The container requires **read and 
   write access** to this directory.

.. note:: Docker volume or port mappings always follow the scheme that you first
          specify the host systems port followed by the internal port of the
          container. E.g. **-v /datasets:/home/datasets** would mount /datasets
          from your system to /home/datasets in the docker container.


Typically, your docker command would start like this:

- Map *INPUT_DIR* (from your system) to */home/input_dir* in the container
  
  *e.g. /path/to/my/cat/dataset:/home/input_dir:ro*

- Map *OUTPUT_DIR* (from your system) to */home/output_dir* in the container
  
  *e.g. /path/where/I/want/the/docker/output:/home/output_dir*

- Specify the token to authenticate your user

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN

Now, let's see how this will look in action!

.. note:: Learn how to obtain your :ref:`ref-authentication-token`.

.. warning:: Don't forget to replace **INPUT_DIR** and **OUTPUT_DIR** with the path 
             to your local input and output directory. You must not change the 
             path after the **:** since this path is describing the internal
             file system within the container!

Embedding and Sampling a Dataset
-----------------------------------

To embed your images with a pre-trained model, you can run the docker solution with this command:

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN \
        remove_exact_duplicates=True \
        enable_corruptness_check=True \
        stopping_condition.n_samples=0.3

The command above does the following:

- **remove_exact_duplicates=True** Check your dataset for corrupt images

- **enable_corruptness_check=True** Removes exact duplicates

- **stopping_condition.n_samples=0.3** Samples 30% of the images using the
  default method (coreset). Sampling 30% means that the remaining dataset 
  will be 30% of the initial dataset size. You can also specify the exact 
  number of remaining images by setting **n_samples** to an integer value.

  This allows you to specify the minimum allowed distance between two image 
  embeddings in the output dataset. After normalizing the input embeddings 
  to unit length, this value should be between 0 and 2. This is often a more 
  convenient method when working with different data sources and trying to 
  combine them in a balanced way.

- **stopping_condition.min_distance=0.2** would remove all samples which are
  closer to each other than 0.2. 

The docker creates just an output file with the selected
filenames for you. You can also tell the program to copy the selected files into
the output folder by adding the parameter **dump_dataset=True** to the command.


Train a Self-Supervised Model
-----------------------------------

Sometimes it may be beneficial to finetune a self-supervised model on your 
dataset before embedding the images. This may be the case when the dataset is 
from a specific domain (e.g. for medical images).

The command below will **train a self-supervised model** for (default: 100) 
epochs on the images stored in the input directory before embedding 
and sampling them.

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN \
        enable_training=True

The training of the model is identical to using the lightly open-source package
with the following command:

.. code-block:: console

    lightly-train input_dir=INPUT_DIR

**Checkpoints** from your training process will be stored in the output directory. You can continue training from such
a checkpoint by copying the checkpoint to the shared directory and then passing the checkpoint filename to the container:

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v SHARED_DIR:/home/shared_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN \
        stopping_condition.n_samples=0.3 \
        enable_training=True \
        checkpoint=lightly_epoch_99.ckpt

You may not always want to train for exactly 100 epochs with the default settings. The next section will
explain how to customize the default settings.


Accessing Lightly Input Parameters
-----------------------------------
The docker container is a wrapper around the lightly Python package. 
Hence, for training and embedding the user can access all the settings from 
the lightly command-line tool. Just prepend the parameter with **lightly** to
do so.

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN \
        remove_exact_duplicates=True \
        enable_corruptness_check=True \
        stopping_condition.n_samples=0.3 \
        enable_training=True \
        lightly.trainer.max_epochs=10 \
        lightly.collate.input_size=64 \
        lightly.loader.batch_size=256 \
        lightly.trainer.precision=16 \
        lightly.model.name=resnet-101



A list of all input parameters can be found here: :ref:`rst-docker-parameters`


Sampling from Embeddings File
----------------------------------

It is also possible to sample directly from embedding files generated by previous runs. For this,
move the embeddings file to the shared directory, and specify the filename like so:

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v SHARED_DIR:/home/shared_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN \
        remove_exact_duplicates=True \
        enable_corruptness_check=False \
        stopping_condition.n_samples=0.3 \
        embeddings=my_embeddings.csv

The embeddings file should follow the structure of the .csv file created by the
lightly CLI: :ref:`ref-cli-embeddings-lightly` or as described in :ref:`ref-docker-meta-information`. 

Manually Inspecting the Embeddings
----------------------------------
Every time you run Lightly Docker you will find an `embeddings.csv` file in the
output directory. This file contains the embeddings of all samples in your dataset.
You can use the embeddings for clustering or manual inspection of your dataset.

.. figure:: images/colab_embeddings_example.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Example plot of working with embeddings.csv

    Example plot of working with embeddings.csv


We provide an 
`example notebook <https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1aHJBKyfopheWYOkIEEXyxyRoqQVfWe3A?usp=sharing>`_
to learn more about how to work with the embeddings.

Sampling from Video Files
--------------------------
In case you are working with video files, it is possible to point the docker container 
directly to the video files. This prevents the need to extract the individual frames beforehand.
To do so, simply store all videos you want to work with in a single directory, the lightly software
will automatically load all frames from the videos.

.. code-block:: console

    # work on a single video
    data/
    +-- my_video.mp4

    # work on several videos
    data/
    +-- my_video_1.mp4
    +-- my_video_2.avi

As you can see, the videos do not need to be in the same file format. An example command for a folder 
structure as shown above could then look like this:

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v SHARED_DIR:/home/shared_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN \
        stopping_condition.n_samples=0.3

Where INPUT_DIR is the path to the directory containing the video files.

Removing Exact Duplicates
---------------------------
With the docker solution, it is possible to remove **only exact duplicates** from the dataset. For this,
simply set the stopping condition `n_samples` to 1.0 (which translates to 100% of the data). The exact command is:

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v SHARED_DIR:/home/shared_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN \
        remove_exact_duplicates=True \
        stopping_condition.n_samples=1.


Reporting
-----------------------------------

To facilitate sustainability and reproducibility in ML, the docker container
has an integrated reporting component. For every dataset, you run through the container
an output directory gets created with the exact configuration used for the experiment. 
Additionally, plots, statistics, and more information collected either during the training of the
self-supervised model, embedding, or sampling of the dataset are provided. 

To make it easier for you to understand and discuss the dataset we put the essential information into
an automatically generated PDF report.
Sample reports can be found on the `Lightly website <https://lightly.ai/analytics>`_.


.. _ref-docker-runs:

Live View of Docker Status
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can get a live status update of the currently running docker runs through 
the `cloud platform <https://app.lightly.ai>`_. 

To use the new feature simply follow the steps:

#. Make sure you have the latest docker version installed
   (see :ref:`ref-docker-download-and-install`) 
#. Open a browser and navigate to the `Lightly Platform <https://app.lightly.ai>`_
#. In the navigation menu on the top click on **My Docker Runs**
#. Once you start the Lightly Docker you should see the dashboard of the current
   run. Please make sure that you use the same token for the docker run as you
   find in the dashboard.

In the dashboard, you see a 
list of your docker runs and a live update of the active runs. Use this
view to see whether the data selection is still running as expected.

.. image:: images/docker_runs_overview.png

.. note:: Note that only status updates and error messages are transmitted. 


Docker Output
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The output directory is structured in the following way:

* config:
   A directory containing copies of the configuration files and overwrites.
* data:
   The data directory contains everything to do with data. If `enable_corruptness_check=True`,
   it will contain a "clean" version of the dataset. If `remove_exact_duplicates=True`, it will 
   contain a copy of the `embeddings.csv` where all duplicates are removed. Otherwise, it will 
   simply store the embeddings computed by the model.
* filenames:
   This directory contains lists of filenames of the corrupt images, removed images, sampled
   images and the images which were removed because they have an exact duplicate in the dataset.
* plots:
   A directory containing the plots which were produced for the report.
* report.pdf
   To provide a simple overview of the filtering process the docker container automatically generates a report.
   The report contains

   * information about the job (duration, processed files etc.)
   * estimated savings in terms of labeling costs and CO2 due to the smaller dataset
   * statistics about the dataset before and after sampling
   * histogram before and after filtering
   * visualizations of the dataset
   * nearest neighbors of retained images among the removed ones



Below you find a typical output folder structure.


.. code-block:: console

    |-- config
    |   |-- config.yaml
    |   |-- hydra.yaml
    |   '-- overrides.yaml
    |-- data
    |   |-- embeddings.csv
    |   '-- unique_embeddings.csv
    |-- filenames
    |   |-- corrupt_filenames.txt
    |   |-- duplicate_filenames.txt
    |   |-- removed_filenames.txt
    |   '-- sampled_filenames.txt
    |-- plots
    |   |-- distance_distr_after.png
    |   |-- distance_distr_before.png
    |   |-- filter_decision_0.png
    |   |-- filter_decision_166668.png
    |   |-- filter_decision_250002.png
    |   |-- filter_decision_333336.png
    |   |-- filter_decision_416670.png
    |   |-- filter_decision_83334.png
    |   |-- scatter_pca.png
    |   |-- scatter_pca_no_overlay.png
    |   |-- scatter_umap.png
    |   '-- scatter_umap_no_overlay.png
    '-- report.pdf

Evaluation of the Sampling Proces
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**Histograms and Plots**

The report contains histograms of the pairwise distance between images before and after the sampling.

An example of such a histogram before and after filtering for the CamVid dataset consisting of 367
samples is shown below. We marked the region which is of special interest with an orange rectangle. 
Our goal is to make this histogram more symmetric by removing samples of short distances from each other. 

If we remove 25 samples (7%) out of the 367 samples of the CamVid dataset the histogram looks more symmetric
as shown below. In our experiments, removing 7% of the dataset results in a model with higher validation set accuracy.

.. image:: images/histogram_before_after.jpg

.. note::

    Why symmetric histograms are preferred: An asymmetric histogram can be the result of either a dataset with outliers or inliers.
    A heavy tail for low distances means that there is at least one high-density region with many samples very close to each other within the main cluster.
    Having such a high-density region can lead to biased models trained on this particular dataset. A heavy tail towards high distances shows that there is
    at least one high-density region outside the main cluster of samples.

**Retained/Removed Image Pairs**

The report also displays examples of retained images with their nearest neighbor among the removed images. This is a good heuristic to see whether the number 
of retained samples is too small or too large: If the pairs are are very different, this may be a sign that too many samples were removed. If the pairs are similar,
it is suggested that more images are removed.

With the argument stopping_condition.n_samples=X you can set the number of samples which should be kept.

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN \
        remove_exact_duplicates=True \
        enable_corruptness_check=False \
        stopping_condition.n_samples=500

With the argument n_example_images you can determine how many pairs are shown. Note that this must be an even number.

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
        -v INPUT_DIR:/home/input_dir:ro \
        -v OUTPUT_DIR:/home/output_dir \
        lightly/sampling:latest \
        token=MYAWESOMETOKEN \
        remove_exact_duplicates=True \
        enable_corruptness_check=False \
        stopping_condition.n_samples=0.3 \
        n_example_images=32
